# [Twitter to end free access to its API](https://techcrunch.com/2023/02/01/twitter-to-end-free-access-to-its-api/)

It's a little worrying how quickly a big API that many people use, from researchers to big firms, can be shut down and locked behind a paywall. It also brings into question why many services also have free API access. Is it because they think the value that third party services provide is greater than the cost of providing API access to the internet? In either case, it is interesting that Twitter now believes that locking API access behind a $1,000 per month paywall will continue to garner them a greater amount of utility than the free access implementation. There's also the case if there are any firms at all that have their livelihood staked on Twitter's free API base that aren't already on a paid tier, and how they would adapt to this change, not to mention the amount of small projects that benefit many that rely on this free tier.

### Kate Yoon's Comment

I thought this article was interesting in light of all the recent changes to Twitter following new leadership, and I agree with everything you pointed out regarding the paywall. I think the loss to third-party research groups who used the API is an outcome that unforuntately seems inevitable. Elon Musk actually recently tweeted that Twitter will allow the API to be free for "good" bots, which is an interesting decision whihch raises so many questions. What's considered a "good" bot? Who gets to decide this? Overall, I think this decision to lock the API behind a paywall is an incredibly unfortunate one. 